YASHWANTH MANCHIREDDY
 	myashwanth9999@gmail.com
 	+1 (361) 247-0548	
               
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY:
A skilled Java CLOUD/DevOps professional with over 4 years of experience who has certified in Azure DevOps Engineer, Kubernetes Administrator, Azure Administrator. Has great knowledge of cloud platforms like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform (GCP). Worked with Continuous Integration, Delivery and Deployment CI/CD tools like Jenkins and Azure DevOps. Used Infrastructure as code tools like Terraform, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation, Puppet, Chef. Utilized containerization tools like Docker and orchestration tools like Kubernetes, Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS). experience designing and implementing robust and scalable applications. Proficient in the entire software development lifecycle, with expertise in Java, Spring Boot, React.js, and various databases. Adept at collaborating with cross-functional teams to deliver high-quality solutions, with a track record of achieving performance improvements and enhancing user satisfaction. Strong problem-solving skills and a commitment to staying current with emerging technologies. 
	Well-versed in architecture and implementation of cloud services such as Microsoft Azure services which include Storage, Web Apps, Active Directory, Azure Application Insights, Logic Apps, Data Factory, Data Bricks, Service Bus, Azure.
	Expert in Cloud Services (PaaS & IaaS & SaaS), Application Gateways, Azure Monitoring, Azure OMS, Key Vault, Cognitive-Services (LUIS) & SQL Azure, Cloud services, ExpressRoute.
	Proficient in configuring, designing and deploying solutions on Windows Azure for applications (Including Compute, Storage, IaaS, ARM templates) and in Azure IaaS - Virtual machines, VM Scale Sets, Load Balancer, Traffic Manager, Virtual Networks, SQL, Resource Groups and Cloud Services.
	Used Azure Backup, Azure Key Vault, Azure Policies, Tagging and Salt Stack.
	Performed as build and release engineer, deployed the services by VSTS (Azure DevOps) pipeline. For all the applications I created and Maintained pipelines to manage the IAC.
	In both cloud and on-premises with GIT, MS Build, Docker, Maven along with Jenkins plugins we executed a CI/CD pipeline using Azure DevOps (VSTS, TFS).
	Expert in rolling out microservices, application development and upgraded using AWS/Azure services such as Azure DevOps, Kubernetes Service (AKS/EKS), Container Services, MySQL DB, Grafana, Azure pipelines, RBAC, and monitoring clusters.
	Proficient in managing Azure Monitoring using metrics and logs and getting useful data out of it.
	Implemented Terraform templates for provisioning virtual networks, subnets, VM Scale sets, Load balancers and NAT rules and used Terraform graph to visualize execution plan using the graph command.
	Proficient in using Terraform and Ansible also migration of legacy and monolithic systems to Azure. By creating Ansible Nodes we managed RHEL and Ubuntu virtual servers on Azure.
	Proficient in converting DevOps methodologies into Dev-SecOps model by introducing security/vulnerability scans in different phases of DevOps.
	Proficient in migrating On-premises infrastructure to cloud platforms like AWS/Azure and involved in virtualization using (VMware), Open Stacks, and infrastructure orchestration using containerization technologies like Docker and Kubernetes.
	Experienced in Ansible Tower, developing Ansible playbooks for managing the application/OS configuration files in GIT hub, integrating with Jenkins, and Verifying with Jenkins plugins, deploying the application in Linux environment.
	Extensive experience in building Artifacts using various build tools like Ant, Maven and Gradle and store back to Nexus, JFROG and Artifactory, run environmental jobs by using provisioning tools Docker and Vagrant.
	Experience in configuring and maintaining Amazon Web Services which include services like Amazon EC2, ELB, Auto-Scaling, S3, Route53, IAM, VPC, RDS, Dynamo DB, Cloud Trail, Cloud Watch, Elastic Cache, SNS, SQS, Cloud Front, and Lambda, EMR, Elastic Beanstalk and focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and Auto-scaling in AWS CloudFormation.
	Experience in maintaining Amazon Web Services and experience in Architecting Legacy Data Migration projects such as Teradata to AWS Redshift, migration, Teradata to Snowflake Migration, AWS Cloud from on-premises.
	Experience on AWS, focusing on high availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling using Terraform templates. Along with (CI/CD) with AWS Lambda and AWS Code Pipeline. Good Knowledge using AWS Lambda for server-less computing using python and java.
	Administered Bamboo servers which include installing, upgrade, backup, adding users, creating plans, installing the local/remote agent, adding capabilities, performance tuning, troubleshooting issues, and maintenance.
	Set-up CI/CD pipelines with Jenkins and expertise in building freestyle projects, pipeline, multi-branch pipeline Jobs through Jenkins file.
	Developed automated processes that run daily to check disk usage and perform cleanup of file systems on LINUX environments using shell scripting.
	Monitoring of network services (SMTP, POP3, HTTP, NNTP, ICMP, SNMP, FTP, SSH) and host resources (processor load, disk usage, system logs) on a majority of network operating systems like UNIX, Linux and Windows using Nagios.
	Used JIRA for ticketing and as well as a defect tracking system and configure various workflows, customizations and plug-ins for JIRA bug/issue tracker, integrated Jenkins with JIRA, GitHub, Maven.
	Involved in developing custom scripts using Python, Shell to automate the deployment process and for Task scheduling, Systems backups for RHEL.
	Well-versed with Software development life cycle (SDLC), Software Test life cycle (STLC) and Bug life cycle worked with testing methodologies like Waterfall and Agile (SCRUM).
	Designed and Developed J2EE web-based consumer applications using Spring, Spring Boot, DHTML, and Ajax. 
	Skilled in identifying and resolving technical issues, optimizing performance, and ensuring high-quality code delivery. 
	Led a team of 3 UI engineers to implement a large-scale responsive mobile application and oversaw the project from inception to production release. 
	●  Used Angular JS, Node JS, and Bootstrap in effective web design. 
	●  Developed UI screens using HTML, CSS, JSP, and JavaScript Selecting appropriate AWS service based on compute, data, or security requirements and Configured VPCs, subnets, and firewall rules to secure network communications in GCP and Azure. 
TECHNICAL SKILLS
Programming Languages	Java, Python
Cloud Technologies	Azure, AWS, GCP, OpenStack.
Containerization	Docker, Kubernetes, Docker Swarm.
Version Control Tools	GIT, GitLab, Bitbucket, SVN, TFS.
CI/CD Tools	Jenkins/Hudson, Azure DevOps
Configuration Management Tools         	Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Terraform, Chef Automate,
Ansible Tower. 
Scripting Languages	Python, Ruby, JSON, YAML, Bash shell, Power shell,
Groovy, Terraform, Perl. 
Monitoring Tools	Splunk, Nagios, ELK, App Dynamics, Cloud Watch, 
Dynatrace. 
Operating Systems	Ubuntu, CentOS, RedHat Linux, Windows.
Databases	MySQL, MS SQL SERVER 2008/12, MS Access, 
NoSQL (MongoDB, DynamoDB), Aurora. 
Web Servers	Apache HTTP 3.x, Apache Tomcat, Nginx, IIS. 
Build Tools	Maven, Ant, Gradle.
Bug Tracking Tools                       	JIRA, Service Now, Bugzilla, Remedy. 
Repository Management                   	JFrog, Nexus, Artifactory. 
CERTIFICATIONS
o	MICROSOFT CERTIFIED: DEVOPS ENGINEER EXPERT 
o	MICROSOFT CERTIFIED: AZURE ADMINISTRATOR ASSOCIATE 
o	CKA: CERTIFIED KUBERNETES ADMINISTRATOR 
o	AZ-400 MICROSOFT DEVOPS SOLUTIONS 
o	AWS CERTIFIED SOLUTIONS ARCHITECT - ASSOCIATE
PRIOR EXPERIENCE 
ASML - California	Sept 2021 - Present
FULL STACK JAVA CLOUD DEVELOPER
Ø	Worked in Agile Environment and Iterative development process using Scrum concepts that include Analyzing, Designing, Coding, Testing, and Implementation & Production Support. 
Ø	Designed and Developed J2EE web-based consumer applications using Spring, Spring Boot, DHTML, and Ajax. 
Ø	Skilled in identifying and resolving technical issues, optimizing performance, and ensuring high-quality code delivery. 
Ø	Revamped the existing system, which increased the site traffic by 30% and cut down costs by 40%. 
Ø	Communicated with servers asynchronously using Ajax and handled data in JSON or XML format. 
Ø	Managed project tasks, issues, and progress using Jira for effective project management. 
Ø	Configured and deployed Azure Automation Scripts for a multitude of applications utilizing the Azure stack for Compute, Web and Mobile, Blobs, Resource Groups, Azure Data Lake, HDInsight Clusters, Azure Data Factory, Azure SQL, Cloud Services, and ARM Services.
Ø	Configured Azure Virtual Networks, subnets, DHCP address blocks, Azure network settings, DNS settings, security policies and routing. Also, deployed Azure IaaS virtual machines and cloud services (PaaS role instances) into secure Virtual Networks and subnets.
Ø	Managed Azure Compute Services, Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balancing, Horizontal and vertical scaling, VM Scale Set, Application Gateway, Network Security Group, Web role, Worker role, Scaling/Management. 
Ø	Managed Clusters with various Servers in Azure Cloud Resource groups. Implemented various services in Azure like Data Lake to store and analyze the data. Managed to orchestrate the data to and from Data Lake Store using Azure Data Factory.
Ø	Played a great role in moving data from on-premise to Azure Cloud using Azure Migrate and Azure Data migration services. 
Ø	Worked on Serverless services, created and configured HTTP Triggers in the Azure Functions with application insights for monitoring and performing load testing on the applications using the Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS) also called Azure DevOps Services.
Ø	Deployed two-tier .NET, Python applications to Azure DevOps to focus on development by using services such as Repos to commit codes, Build Pipelines using PowerShell scripts for CI/CD and Test plans for unit test, deploy to App Service, Azure Application Insights collects health performance and usage data of the process, stored artifacts in blob storages.
Ø	Extensively worked on Azure DevOps, creation of pipelines for various ARM template deployments by variables through pipeline variables and variable groups. 
Ø	Managed Azure Container Registry to store private Docker images, which are deployed and Azure pipelines to build, test, and deployments. Azure Monitor to collect metrics and logs. Configured Monitor to track performance and maintain security, and used Splunk tool to collect metrics, queries.
Ø	Extensively involved in Infrastructure-As-a-Code, execution plans, resource graph and change automation using Terraform. 
Ø	Provisioned the high availability of Azure VMs using Terraform also wrote new plugins to support new functionality in Terraform and involved in using Terraform to migrate legacy and monolithic systems to Azure. 
Ø	Used Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) to deploy a managed Kubernetes cluster in Azure and created an AKS cluster in the Azure portal used template-driven deployment options such as Azure Resource Manager (ARM)templates and Terraform.
Ø	Created reproducible builds of the Kubernetes applications, managed Kubernetes pods, created nodes and replicated them and managed releases of Helm packages using Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS).
Ø	Worked on Kubernetes to manage containerized applications using nodes, Configuring Maps, selector services.  Deployed application containers as Pods. To provide secured network connectivity to the containers used Calico as CNI. Responsible for build and deployment automation using Docker, Kubernetes containers.  
Ø	Used Bit-Bucket instead of git as it is a web-based version control repository hosting service for development projects. 
Ø	Implemented Docker-maven plugin in Maven pom.xml files to build Docker images for all microservices and later used Dockerfile to build the Docker images from the java jar files. 
Background: Java,Azure, Azure DevOps, AKS, Docker, Docker Swarm, Ansible, Ansible Tower, Kubernetes, Terraform, Python, Maven, Bitbucket, Apache Tomcat, VMware, Linux, Python
Origin Hubs – North Carolina	Aug 2019 – Sept 2021
FULL STACK JAVA CLOUD DEVELOPER
Ø	Built an application environment to operate at high availability in different Azure regions by using CDN, Azure Traffic Manager, Active Directory, Storage Queues, App Services-Web Apps, Cognitive Services, Azure Search, Storage Blobs, Redis cache, and SQL Database. 
Ø	Designed and developed Applications based on JSF and Hibernate framework using MVC design patterns. 
Ø	Used Spring Boot with ORM Framework (Hibernate) to do CRUD operations with Database. 
Ø	Involved to implement various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library. 
Ø	Analyzed and designed a scalable system based on Object Oriented Concepts, OOAD and the various J2EE design patterns. 
Ø	Developed RESTful APIs using Java Spring Boot and integrated them with React to enable a seamless user experience across multiple devices and platforms. 
Ø	Implement the database connectivity using JDBC with the MySQL database as the backend. 
Ø	Worked with React.JS to build Bootstrap components for responsive UI Objects and linked with API data to view and render the virtual DOM dynamically and Handling RESTful API endpoints, authentication, and error handling. 
Ø	Implemented Enterprise Integration architecture using Azure Service Bus, AppService, Active Directory, Storage, hybrid connection manager, active directory authentication for Azure SQL server and other services offerings by Azure.
Ø	Configured NSGs for two tiers and three tier applications. Experience in integrating on premises servers to Azure. Configured VNETs and subnets as per the project requirement. Configure Azure blob storage and Azure file servers. Configured private and public facing Azure load balancers. 
Ø	Used Azure Express Route to set up a private connection to Microsoft cloud services such as a Microsoft Azure and Dynamic 365. Configured Azure Virtual Networks, subnets, DHCP address blocks, Azure network settings, DNS settings, security policies and routing. Azure API Management, Security, Cloud-to-Cloud Integration (Public, Private).
Ø	Provisioned the high availability of Azure VMs using Terraform and ARM templates, wrote new plugins to support new functionality in Terraform and involved in using terraform to migrate legacy and monolithic systems to AZURE.
Ø	 Implementing Azure DevOps technologies and processes like containerization, infrastructure as code, metrics, monitoring and Automate wherever sensible.
Ø	Involved in combining all Release pipelines into Single Release pipeline by using Azure DevOps, VSTS & amp, and manage passwords by creating the secret keys and attaching them with Variable Groups with the help of Key Vault. 
Ø	Worked on all the DevOps Deployment processes, Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery through Azure DevOps. Designed build and release strategies and worked on implementation of infrastructure as Code. Also managed Azure Kubernetes service (AKS) infrastructure.
Ø	Worked with Terraform Templates to automate the Azure Iaas virtual machines using terraform modules and deployed virtual machine scale sets in production environment.
Ø	Created terraform templates for provisioning virtual networks, VM Scale sets, Load balancers and NAT rules and used terraform graph to visualize execution plan using the graph command. Used Terraform to deploy the infrastructure necessary to create development, test, and production environments for software development project.
Ø	Implemented multi-tier application provisioning in OpenStack cloud, integrating it with Ansible, migrating the application using Maven as build tool.
Ø	Worked on Docker and Ansible in build automation pipeline and continuous deployment of code using Jenkins and wrote playbooks to automate servers using YAML scripting and developed an Ansible role which will be integrated into CI/CD pipeline.
Ø	Integrated Docker container-based test infrastructure to Jenkins CI test flow and set up build environment integrating with GIT and JIRA to trigger builds using Webhooks and Slave Machines.
Ø	Created Clusters using Kubernetes and worked on creating many pods, replication controllers, services, deployments, labels, health checks and ingress by writing YAML files.
Ø	Worked on Deployment Automation of all microservices to pull image from private Docker registry and deploy to Kubernetes Cluster.
Ø	Involved in setting up Kubernetes (k8s) clusters for running microservices and implemented a Kubernetes Container Orchestration solution within OpenStack allowing for easy management, creation & recovery of OpenStack assets.
Ø	Worked on Ansible as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manage changes and written Ansible playbooks to perform middleware binary Installation and Configuration tasks involving JDK, Tomcat binaries installation.
Background: Java, CI/CD, Azure, Azure DevOps, Terraform, Maven, Jenkins, Docker, Kubernetes, Ansible, GitHub, Splunk, Power Shell, Windows Administration, Jira, Service-now, Linux, Git. 

